---
layout: pagev2
title: Lampstand
permalink: /wiki/lampstand/
---
- [Background](#background)
- [History](#history)
- [Material](#material)
- [Light](#light)
- [Trimming](#trimming)

## Background

The **lampstand** is a piece of golden furniture in the Holy Place of the tabernacle which had seven lamps, one proceeding from the middle and three branches on either side. The is a symbol of Triune God: gold element symbolizes the Father's divine substance, the shape and form of the lampstand symbolizes the Son as the embodiment, and the expression of the lampstand with its lamps is the Spirit. 

In the book of Revelation, there are seven lampstands referring to the seven local churches, indicating the God Himself has been reproduced in the churches.

## History

The lampstand and its description is initially seen in Exodus 25 during the building of the tabernacle. It is seen again in the building of the temple in 1 Kings 7:49, followed by the third instance in the rebuilding of the temple in Zechariah 4:2-10. 

## Material

The lampstand is made of pure gold, indicating divinity. The lampstands in Revelation signifying the churches being pure gold mean that each local church is identically golden.

## Light

The lampstand generates light. Without the lampstand in the tabernacle, it would be dark and impossible to move. Therefore, the light generated by the seven lamps (signifying the seven Spirits) is for the move, which is for God's building.

## Trimming

The wicks in each lamp of a lampstand will get charred, and must be trimmed by the priests. This represents the cutting off of all that does not belong to God, such as the self, natural man, lost of the first love, the world, etc.